Below are brief descriptions of the code as well as each program's input and output. The code was written in Python in Jupyter notebook but is uploaded here in an HTML file format for easier use and inspection across platforms.

"Coalescent Simulation" runs the simulation for a neutral coalescent with replication-dependent and replication-independent mutations using the Gillespie algorithm. This code can be run for a constant or fluctuating replication or pairwise coalescence rate and outputs files containing site frequency spectrums for the input parameters.

"D Statistic Graphs" calculates the Tajima's D and Fu and Li's D statistics for each run of a coalescent simulation and plots their distributions. This was used to create Figures 3-6. The input is a file containing the site frequency spectrums for each run of a coalescent simulation as output by "Coalescent Simulation". The output is a figure of the distributions of D statistics

"Estimate Nu" calculates and plots distributions of estimated replication-independent mutation rates (nu) for each run of coalescent simulations with different pairwise coalescence rates with a comparison between different numbers of lineages. This was used to create Figure 2. The input is four files containing the site frequency spectrums for each of the runs of coalescent simulations with two different constant pairwise coalescence rates and numbers of lineages as output by "Coalescent Simulation". The output is a figure of the distributions of estimated values of nu for different numbers of total lineages.

"Segregating Sites Graph" calculates and plots means and standard deviations in the number of segregating sites for coalescent simulations with different pairwise coalescence rates and replication-independent mutation rates. This was used to create Figure 1. The input is multiple files containing the site frequency spectrums for each of the runs of coalescent simulations with constant pairwise coalescence rates as output by "Coalescent Simulation". The output is a figure of the average number of segregating sites.